---
title: "Vacasa Unit Recommender"
date: 2021-11-23
tags: [Recommender System, KNN, Conversion]
header:
  overlay_image: "/assets/images/0006-MOOC-recommender/0006-banner1.jfif"
  overlay_filter: 0.5
  teaser: "/assets/images/0006-MOOC-recommender/0006-banner1.jfif"
excerpt: "KNN Recommender for Vacasa Rentals"
mathjax: "true"
# This sets the table of contents on the right of the page
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "thumbs-up"
toc_sticky: "true"
---

## Objective
Vacasa would like to add a section to their abandoned cart email which recommends 3 units similar to the unit the customer abandoned in their cart. The objective is to create a programmatic solution to determining 3 similar units for the abandoned cart email, with the ultimate goal of maximizing conversion/revenue from the email.

## Project Notebooks
[Full Analysis Jupyter Notebook](https://nbviewer.org/github/kenneth-liao/VacasaInterview/blob/main/Vacasa%20Similar%20Unit%20Recommender.ipynb)

## Summary
I created a working KNN model used to determine similar rental units to a unit in a customer's abandoned cart. However, to increase conversion, I can implement additional criteria for recommendations that may improve conversion. For example, I always want to guarantee that the units we're recommending are in the same city or nearby to the unit in the customer's abandoned cart. I would likely also want to ensure that my suggested units have at least an equal or higher maxoccupancy as the abandoned cart unit. Otherwise I run the risk of recommending a unit that doesn't work for the customer. It might also help to have a similar baserate. And finally, equal values for dog, beachaccess, and hottub if the customer is looking for those things specifically. Once all of this has been implemented, I would run an AB test to determine whether the changes improve conversion significantly or not.